Fireman, Karen: So are we waiting.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes.
Fireman, Karen: I have a few initial questions for you, been I haven't finished figuring out my questions, but this is a couple of them.
Fireman, Karen: yeah we I think we all tried to do what you told us on the mods and got that so let's kind of assume that's done, and then the rest of the project is a little bit still confusing so i'm kind of was hoping that.
Fireman, Karen: You can give us some more help on that, because just starting with the dumb stuff Okay, you said there's 10 batches okay 10 batches a month Okay, I get that there's 10 batches because each batch takes two weeks, and you have the five that's so.
Fireman, Karen: Two weeks four weeks in a month two times five got at 10 batches um How much is it a batch I mean that's a dumb question how much is in a batch.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm sure I understand what the question is.
Fireman, Karen: i'm not sure I understand the question either, but I just don't understand how do we know, is it.
Fireman, Karen: Is it.
Fireman, Karen: 403 4350 points prevents that we used in the homework seven.
Wright, Beth: We need to take that into account at all I kind of thought that the amounts that we were looking at or fixed for us in the data set, and then we were solving the optimization problem, given what was fixed in the data set.
Fireman, Karen: I hope you're right.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, yeah.
Wilson Pineda: Just a transportation part is it.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, great okay so so okay.
Faculty Office Hours: Jason the the.
Fireman, Karen: that's the data.
Fireman, Karen: hmm okay Okay, so let me continue with my question, then, I like your point beth, thank you for throwing that in and also Wilson um so so in the verbiage.
Fireman, Karen: um you mentioned that there's um.
Fireman, Karen: So we don't care that there's 10 batches per month we don't care about that we don't care about is there some kind of limitation.
Fireman, Karen: That we have to deal with and i'm not sure how to deal with, about the fact that we have the first three the light ale the whatever the three or that or that take up the three baths and then we have the two remaining that's.
Fireman, Karen: How we use that that part and what Does that imply to us in terms of the data.
Wright, Beth: I maybe oversimplifying, but I just added up the total number of case that would go to each delivery node.
Fireman, Karen: And that is.
Wright, Beth: yeah so it didn't matter necessarily what kind it was it's just that it was a keg, and it needed to go in and track.
Fireman, Karen: Except for didn't you have different prices for different things different amounts and swap so do we just um.
Wright, Beth: it's a time optimization problem rather than a pricing problem.
Fireman, Karen: Well it's only that because I was just kind of wondering, are we done once we've done log into and we drop the data in or we it um obviously.
Fireman, Karen: Not obviously I mean is, is that all it is, is that the professor, is that all there is, I would like it to be that because it's very confusing otherwise.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm not sure what you mean, but so this.
Fireman, Karen: With That said, I, like the best said is that issue right I.
Faculty Office Hours: mean it's it's it's basically.
Faculty Office Hours: trying to figure out a route, the.
Faculty Office Hours: route, the lovers, I mean.
Fireman, Karen: We deliver the kegs.
Fireman, Karen: yeah great Okay, and then, when we Okay, so we deliver the case is there any other thing that we have to do with revenue and i'm pricing it out, based on which kind I thought that you wanted that.
Faculty Office Hours: No, because they're all the same.
Fireman, Karen: Good okay.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, so our final answer has to do with the routing and how many went into each truck.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes.
fantastic.
Fireman, Karen: fabulous Okay, so the data set you gave us that had the distances I assume this or distances between the codes that are really the nodes that are really the customers right you gave us that.
Fireman, Karen: You had this grid that was like 20 by 20.
Fireman, Karen: Like CBD and wp and all those guys to read the wrong data.
Faculty Office Hours: No that's fine.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, so that data are those distances between two points, so that when there's an Arc between those two nodes you use that distance and that would be just fyi kind of distance as if we were getting charged.
Fireman, Karen: Some rate per distance is that is that part of this or not, or what.
Wilson Pineda: is carrying carrying forget about race and.
Fireman, Karen: prices, and this is.
Wilson Pineda: All about transportation, I think we appreciate that the Professor polar bear bus on the beginning, just as though exercise that is there just for context, I mean question is about transportation that's how you take is that right, Professor.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, so the grid is for nothing in this particular product project we don't use that grid of numbers.
Faculty Office Hours: Which group.
Coleman, Clay: You yeah you need the grid.
Fireman, Karen: would not be.
Coleman, Clay: The top one i'm talking to you need all the the distances, I mean you got to know how far each places from each one, so you know how many miles to take on either the TRIPs and how much time it takes.
Fireman, Karen: But I thought that was the X, Y coordinates.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, I thought we were using the X, Y coordinates like we did in the baggage problem.
Wilson Pineda: The Dax why just to plot the screen, they are arrows and they located nothing else now.
Wilson Pineda: They Poland optimization.
Wilson Pineda: Point is from the from the table with the distances.
Wright, Beth: yeah the grid your time in.
Faculty Office Hours: accordance will help you graph the solution.
Fireman, Karen: got it.
Faculty Office Hours: But the.
Faculty Office Hours: The seconds are based on.
Faculty Office Hours: locations.
Fireman, Karen: Those are seconds those numbers in the grid or seconds.
Fireman, Karen: Not minutes not miles.
Fireman, Karen: Yes.
Faculty Office Hours: Instead of seven seconds yes.
Fireman, Karen: So, like CB to wp or something like that that's the seconds that it takes from one place to the next.
Yes.
Okay.
Fireman, Karen: And that's how we optimize what was the comparison of that and the baggage.
Fireman, Karen: I don't remember having that.
Faculty Office Hours: database bags, who was minutes.
Fireman, Karen: You get that same data.
yeah with a.
Wilson Pineda: Professor says we're talking about the distance here sorry Karen.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Fireman, Karen: I appreciate it.
Wilson Pineda: I think, on the bag, so he was simple in this sense that there was a sandy stance either way you know same time.
Wilson Pineda: And I hear you pointed out on the instructions that the distance or difference, I mean, I would like to have some data So how do you solve that you will have to, will you create.
Wilson Pineda: More arcs that knows and will be one hour garnish this on Asia time or I mean can't Can you give us some guidance on on on how to program that.
Wilson Pineda: On the fact that they are there differently, would you would you would you would you go through the the the matrix on on and duplicate the errors and the nose or just did the arrows.
Faculty Office Hours: understand what you're asking um.
Faculty Office Hours: The the distances are different.
Faculty Office Hours: Based on the two in from and you don't need to.
Faculty Office Hours: You don't need to make an assumption, about the fact that they're the same they're all computed I mean they're all.
Faculty Office Hours: they're all using the API.
Faculty Office Hours: aren't sure what your question is.
Wright, Beth: You don't have to do anything they're.
Wright, Beth: Just again for context of like because the model already take into account that the distances are different, yes.
Fireman, Karen: Good good okay.
Wilson Pineda: When you go and you.
Wilson Pineda: You go through the matrix it will take each point differently.
Wilson Pineda: Yes, OK.
Fireman, Karen: OK OK.
Fireman, Karen: And as.
Fireman, Karen: A comparison, I do see the other one, thank you, I do see it was exactly what we had before, thank you.
Wilson Pineda: yeah It makes sense, it makes it things, but thanks.
Faculty Office Hours: Good.
Wilson Pineda: And I have another question i'm working through it, it seems like the POP the brewery.
Wilson Pineda: I mean when I do it the first pass even i'd say that it's going to use three vans when you optimize it you just have to master using one so i'm and I don't know what to expect to be one or the other there's gonna be more than one that they are final submission.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, if you were if you were not worrying about capacity than one will be the best.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, because.
Faculty Office Hours: You just like I mean there's no reason to come back to the brewery yes, unless you.
Have.
Faculty Office Hours: That is full.
Wilson Pineda: Okay Okay, yes, I have another capacity that's probably why yes.
Wilson Pineda: Yes, okay thanks.
Coleman, Clay: I had one last I had one quick question on.
Coleman, Clay: there's five bullets towards the bottom, and it was the weather, you can provide an estimate on how close your solution is to some best notion.
Coleman, Clay: Of How exactly do you want us to go about answering that is that, just like Is it the you know, are we saying it's the optimal are we saying it's close, or is it like a.
Coleman, Clay: That that that was I was just more curious on that portion.
Faculty Office Hours: Sure, so.
Faculty Office Hours: I guess, this is kind of test your.
Faculty Office Hours: Your knowledge of what the.
Faculty Office Hours: What the solvers able to tell you.
Okay.
Coleman, Clay: So it's like the the towards the gap stuff that we were talking about.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes.
Coleman, Clay: Yes, okay very good, I just wanted, I just want to make sure.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah good.
Fireman, Karen: Oh that's how we're supposed to use those questions that's really a hell.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, I couldn't figure that out, I thought we were just like coming out of like just theorizing it.
Faculty Office Hours: depends on how you solve the problem, because you can solve the problem.
Faculty Office Hours: Without using a model than you can't make a claim.
Fireman, Karen: But because we have the model we actually can use the model to answer those questions.
Yes.
Fireman, Karen: Oh.
Wilson Pineda: Professor and the loading time the two to three minutes that also context, or do you want to add that, to the model.
Faculty Office Hours: Oh i'm sorry, what did you say.
Wilson Pineda: They lost in time that truck and they all are in a lot in the truck to three minutes per K, is that just context that you want to add that, to the model as well.
Faculty Office Hours: Will I mean it depends on.
Faculty Office Hours: So let's let's say that the loading and loading time was.
Faculty Office Hours: I don't know like 20 minutes.
Faculty Office Hours: Then would that affect a solution, you have or or not.
Fireman, Karen: We can do some modifications to figure it out is that what you're thinking like outside of the model to.
Faculty Office Hours: do some well i'm saying that if if the if the loading and loading time was like 20 minutes, then.
Faculty Office Hours: or.
Faculty Office Hours: or or.
Faculty Office Hours: Whatever seconds, then.
Faculty Office Hours: That might change how many days you want to rent the vehicle for or.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, it doesn't affect the optimization it affects the kind of like interpretation of their results.
Wilson Pineda: Okay.
Wilson Pineda: It makes sense.
Fireman, Karen: So that's outside the model but it's using the model to do some analysis is that what you're saying.
Faculty Office Hours: Well it's like kind of outside the model but it's kind of asking you to kind of use common sense.
Fireman, Karen: yeah.
Wilson Pineda: yeah because the model is now is now is we don't have to.
me.
Faculty Office Hours: that the amount of time that you spend at each unloading and loading each keg, I mean obviously affects I mean obviously affects the.
Faculty Office Hours: The amount of time, it will take, but it doesn't affect the.
Faculty Office Hours: routing.
Wilson Pineda: yeah same makes sense, thanks, Professor make sense.
Faculty Office Hours: But, but if it makes the difference between like one day of rain, the truck or two days of renting the truck you know that that makes the difference.
Fireman, Karen: But you're saying to do that, outside the model and use some common sense related to that is that yes.
Fireman, Karen: So all those things were common sense things about the three the three vats for their particular item, those were context, the other items the 10 batches the all that was just context.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, oh.
Fireman, Karen: Fantastic now you understand if I was trying to put a model around all that why I was getting a bit concerned.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you, I guess you understood, I think.
Wilson Pineda: For sure i'm on the first page, the second to last bullet point um.
Wilson Pineda: Would you mind to kind of.
Wilson Pineda: provide some insight about that that the point how, how will they, how will they.
Karen Fireman: Be for some.
Wilson Pineda: Time will make that you don't have.
Wilson Pineda: To be in the same location, we will not live on the same place, I I see what they do sentences meaning but I don't see a link between the two.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm sorry your your your link is kind of.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, you can see again.
Wilson Pineda: On on the first page the the the bullet point the one in the middle.
Wilson Pineda: Regarding the delivery model and then talking about the Google maps and I understand what the first sentence of that bullet point means.
Wilson Pineda: And I understand what the second sentence means, but I don't know what is the meaning of this those two together, I mean well, what does the has to do, that the transit times are calculated by Google with the fact that you're not going to be see the same that the move.
Wilson Pineda: The noise is going to be visiting multiple times.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, consider your solution.
Faculty Office Hours: Your solution has.
Faculty Office Hours: Four trips.
Faculty Office Hours: doesn't matter which order there.
Faculty Office Hours: Which order you go in.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean, I have, I mean, I have a little little experience for Houston traffic but.
Faculty Office Hours: It seems like certain times of the day, or.
Faculty Office Hours: it's it's it's a challenge.
Faculty Office Hours: But.
Faculty Office Hours: I guess the question is.
Faculty Office Hours: Does it matter.
Wilson Pineda: Okay, I went when I say it.
Faculty Office Hours: doesn't matter doesn't matter you know what.
Faculty Office Hours: Does the transit time depend on the time of day.
Fireman, Karen: yeah what I mean sometimes.
Wilson Pineda: So, so what you're trying to say is that I will likely, the solution will never pass the same point twice.
Wilson Pineda: On around.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm not sure I understand your.
Faculty Office Hours: characterization.
Wilson Pineda: I yes.
Wilson Pineda: He saying on device delivery model there's some pre processing dawn to guarantee that you know pass twice multiple times on this through the say no.
Wilson Pineda: You didn't write it for sentence.
Wilson Pineda: yeah the second sentence, as in case of the oldest are the brewery the transit time calculated by Google maps we didn't serve this is the case.
Wilson Pineda: Why does it have to be one thing with the other one.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm not sure I understand what you're asking.
Wilson Pineda: and asking for is how the Google map times are going to influence that you will not pass the same location twice as opposed to the first exercise on the bags delivery.
Faculty Office Hours: Oh okay well, that the fact that the distances are calculated by Google maps will ensure that you don't have to worry about.
Faculty Office Hours: Visiting more than one place, the same number of times so i'm just saying that you don't have to worry about that because there because the distances obey was called the triangle of want inequality.
Wilson Pineda: Okay, so this is more like a like a context i'm bullet point about we don't have to do anything about it.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm just telling you that you don't have to worry about the distances.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, yes.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, you don't have to worry about it but.
Faculty Office Hours: But at the same time i'm i'm.
Faculty Office Hours: Fine okay good.
Wilson Pineda: thanks for your.
Karen Fireman: Question also Professor i'm sorry now it's getting my software together here, by the way, thank you, sorry i'm a little frazzled on.
Karen Fireman: The so the questions you have after the after the bullet points you have the degree to which the stated restrictions are satisfied is 75 points and then you have.
Karen Fireman: The realize total transit time penalized by meaningful violations of the restrictions which kind of violations are we thinking about, for example.
Faculty Office Hours: Well let's say you, you were out the vehicles in such a way that you have more than 29 kegs on the vehicle.
Faculty Office Hours: That would be a That would be a I mean that would be infeasible right but I don't want to like totally.
Faculty Office Hours: I don't want to penalize that in such a way that I don't reward you from getting partial credit from getting unfeasible.
Faculty Office Hours: So that's What I mean is that make it clear.
Karen Fireman: yeah I just want to make sure I was clear on.
Faculty Office Hours: The things that are the path yeah and I.
Karen Fireman: Like.
Faculty Office Hours: rod the vehicles and you did a great job, and it was just.
Faculty Office Hours: Fantastic but it had more than you know, like.
Faculty Office Hours: More than 30 kegs at a time, then that would be bad.
Faculty Office Hours: But I want to give you partial credit for that.
Karen Fireman: Another question I have at the bottom, you talk about what we can send you and i'm not sure that we have a data item Arc trips.
Karen Fireman: Data set variables origin destination trip number.
Karen Fireman: So.
Karen Fireman: Are you talking about a print out, we can give you is that what you're talking about or something different.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm talking about a SAS data is that.
Karen Fireman: and creating a data set that has the origin and destination and the trip number that it's in your this truck number is that what you mean the truck number.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, I mean you call it what you want, but it's like the it's it's the trick tip number or truck number or whatever you want to call it.
Faculty Office Hours: it's because they're different in different.
Karen Fireman: what's.
Faculty Office Hours: The origin.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so, is it sort of like in the baggage where.
Karen Fireman: We had a city, a city and then a time is that kind of similar to what you're talking about.
Faculty Office Hours: No.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so I don't know what you're talking about them it's not quite that.
Faculty Office Hours: So what i'm telling you that I want from you is that.
Oh.
Karen Fireman: you're a.
Faculty Office Hours: livery model, you have different.
Karen Fireman: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: You have different fans.
Karen Fireman: Like okay i'm with you you're talking about us Arc.
Karen Fireman: Arc us or us Arc Okay, yes, and then the particular particular notes okay I got it Okay, and then the next one node and trip number OK OK, I think I get that all right, so you want us to create these data sets.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah and i'll let you know if there is a look good.
Karen Fireman: And then, what is the output of this model do I understand that we send you the results Is that correct.
Faculty Office Hours: Will you send me their results to make sure that they are like common sense, yes, but in terms of.
Faculty Office Hours: The results for the client, I mean that's kind of.
Faculty Office Hours: it's a little bit different right.
Karen Fireman: No i'm asking a different question when we're done let's say.
Karen Fireman: Right, this second we were finished and we wanted to send it to you very funny right I get that but, if we were ready right now.
Karen Fireman: We would send you a PDF of the output of the log and the Code and the answers to the questions is that the output, we sent you.
Karen Fireman: Two were to respond to the project.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, in the in the meantime, you would send me the data sets.
Karen Fireman: yeah but if suppose we already knew that we had it right.
Faculty Office Hours: If you had everything right, you would send me a PDF of kind of basically what you would send to the client.
Karen Fireman: i'm sorry, but we would send to the client oh shoot.
Karen Fireman: What are we sending to the client.
Faculty Office Hours: and tell them how to route their vehicles right, I mean that's.
Karen Fireman: Okay, but it's the results it's.
Karen Fireman: The results isn't isn't the isn't the isn't the results of the output right, I mean that's, that is what you would send them.
Yes.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah I mean, are you going to send you a file, or are you going to send them, you know kind of the question is.
Faculty Office Hours: you're asking what kind of what what they would expect to see.
Karen Fireman: yeah i'm asking what do we, what do we sent you yeah what's the what's the deliverable what do we send you at the end when we're done, what is the deliverable to you what does it look like.
Faculty Office Hours: I would expect that you would send me.
Faculty Office Hours: A PDF or a Doc file.
Faculty Office Hours: That would have.
Faculty Office Hours: graphs.
Faculty Office Hours: And and those could be you know.
Faculty Office Hours: The graphs could be PDF files or they could be.
Faculty Office Hours: Part of your Doc file.
Karen Fireman: So those are the arrow things right.
Karen Fireman: yeah okay so so Chad, the arrow things with different clients right so that'll be the last one that that's good that we like.
Karen Fireman: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean you're telling them how to how to deliver your tags right, so they want to know, you know how to do it.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, I mean so that they're.
Faculty Office Hours: they're looking for kind of general directions and can this specific.
Faculty Office Hours: depend dependent on demand actually.
Karen Fireman: Is anybody else having trouble, or is it just me.
Karen Fireman: You got this.
Karen Fireman: Okay, good.
Jim Clark: I.
Faculty Office Hours: mean I guess you know, try and put your your mind in the in the place of the the.
Karen Fireman: cells from.
Faculty Office Hours: The brewery amy what do they want to know okay.
Wright, Beth: Just a report i'm just thinking about it, like like doing a doing a White Paper report and where you just want to answer all the questions that he's.
Wright, Beth: asked the additional questions, in addition to making sure that you highlight the the specific asked to the project meaning, like the total time and.
Wright, Beth: The number of trucks and.
Karen Fireman: Okay okay like that you're right a little report about what it already says that in the more concise version that that it prints out Thank you okay I gotcha and the answers to the questions what they would want to say thank you thanks for the.
Wilson Pineda: recap, Professor he does, on the question you probably say that, so the units on the on the table are those some eggs or those are Volume I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: This is Wilson yes.
Faculty Office Hours: So i'm not understand your question.
Wilson Pineda: On the unit on the customer data on the data file.
Wilson Pineda: For the monthly the those are monthly delivery and those are kegs the quantities I don't care the quantities.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, it's it's kegs that we've monthly yes.
Wilson Pineda: Thank you.
Karen Fireman: The stuff in the boxes, where they seconds or minutes in the box, that the boxes were seconds three.
Faculty Office Hours: seconds yes.
Karen Fireman: Thank you, sorry.
Faculty Office Hours: And that only has.
Faculty Office Hours: meaning in the context of.
Faculty Office Hours: The time it takes to load and unload.
Faculty Office Hours: As far as your solution.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean, it may be that, like.
Faculty Office Hours: most fabulous routing of all but you still have to load and unload the kegs and.
Karen Fireman: That we would have to have that.
Faculty Office Hours: difference between like.
Faculty Office Hours: You have the truck for one day or you have the truck for two days kind of yeah okay.
Karen Fireman: which we can we get that from looking through the data and analyzing it and saying Oh well, we would need the truck for an extra day because of all this extra time or we wouldn't.
Karen Fireman: yeah God, thank you.
Good.
Wright, Beth: So, Professor when I was running through the constraint right the constraint were saying you only have 29 K, I was having a lot of.
Wright, Beth: A lot of problem with the constraint and realize that the reason was in creating the.
Wright, Beth: In the imputed variable or trying to figure out the total number of bags I had been referencing notes, instead of delivery nodes and.
Wright, Beth: I couldn't for the life of me figure out why that was a problem, and in the model itself because nodes and delivery nodes were the same to me in the bag, this is in fixing the baggage problem we get that figured out but um.
Wright, Beth: Do you like, I still can't wrap my head around why it worked with delivery nodes but now, maybe that's because the note the nomenclature was just too close and they're really different things, but.
Karen Fireman: Also delivery nodes not have Heathrow in it, it doesn't have the depot.
Faculty Office Hours: Will it depends on whether you're looking at the.
Faculty Office Hours: Like the the British version or the.
Faculty Office Hours: Or the Houston version, but the.
Faculty Office Hours: Delivery nodes don't consider the depot so in terms of the.
Faculty Office Hours: The problem you're trying to solve.
Faculty Office Hours: You don't really care.
Faculty Office Hours: about the depot you don't care about how many kegs they need at the depot because they're there, I mean it's just like you know, like I locked the door, and there are the kegs there.
Faculty Office Hours: So you don't need you don't need to deliver kegs anywhere.
Faculty Office Hours: But the delivery nodes.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Faculty Office Hours: If.
If.
Wright, Beth: Any.
Faculty Office Hours: depot if you include the depot then you're kind of like.
Faculty Office Hours: Making the problem harder than it needs to be.
Wright, Beth: right and it makes sense that it wouldn't have worked, because I, when I restricted the number of trucks Israelis and the way we were to choose number of tracks or trips would be to.
Wright, Beth: Take the phone number of tags that we knew we needed to deliver and divide them up by the number of case in.
Faculty Office Hours: The the the the the kegs that we're going to the the brewery.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah be yeah there will be kind of like over.
Faculty Office Hours: It you don't you didn't deliver those tags.
Wright, Beth: Sorry.
Faculty Office Hours: ignore them.
Karen Fireman: pretty much ignore the empties altogether right, I mean that's kind of like a given.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, yes, I mean based on the characteristics of the truck and the problem, yes, you don't need to worry about the the empties coming back because you always have more.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean you're gonna you're gonna I mean presumably they're not too many difference, but you always have.
Faculty Office Hours: Plenty of space for the empties coming back.
Karen Fireman: yeah in this problem, the way you did it, it was just context, but in some other problem if we had a different limitation, etc, it could be an issue, not just problem.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, that is correct, yes.
Wright, Beth: I also have.
Wright, Beth: On run times so when when I started working on the the actual brewery delivery problem I noticed that when I put in the number, especially as you increase the number of trucks you increase the complexity of the models potato really long time to run.
Wright, Beth: And, and sometimes like this visualization kind of says it has a problem in just producing that many graphs and without expected in your results that it would take a really long time to run.
Faculty Office Hours: It takes a reasonably long time to run and if you increase the number of of vehicles, it could take you know quite a long time to run I mean if you look said, if there were 10 vehicles or more than that yeah it could it could it could take a long time to run.
Wright, Beth: is inherently mean that I made a mistake doesn't mean I didn't make a mistake for nine years.
Faculty Office Hours: If it if it works with for vehicles or for vans and.
Faculty Office Hours: And, and it takes much longer for 10, then I wouldn't worry about yes, that is a problem yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: I definitely wouldn't want to take more than 10 trips on that down.
Wright, Beth: But I assume, though, that tinkering with the number of vehicles is something that we can do to determine if there are there is a more optimal number of vehicles.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah you could but but keep in mind that.
Faculty Office Hours: When you consider the solution with one vehicle when Bam.
Faculty Office Hours: It gives you.
Faculty Office Hours: A smaller transit time.
Faculty Office Hours: Because i'm.
Faculty Office Hours: Not well, I mean if you don't worry about the capacity of the bands.
Faculty Office Hours: If if they're like big vans and you don't worry about how many cakes can go on there then there's no reason to go back to the depot.
Faculty Office Hours: genius know what I mean it'd be that just takes more time.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Faculty Office Hours: Then one one van or one vehicle is got always be the best solution.
Wright, Beth: Is that true if you're going between three and four between four and five, as well the smallest number bands so it's going to be the moral.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, I mean in in still you unless you start to introduce capacity.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean just think about it, I mean you go from you know A to B, or you go back to the to the depot and then go back to be it's always better to go.
Wright, Beth: that's not always true.
Faculty Office Hours: But when when you have a class and you may need more than one.
Faculty Office Hours: trip, or more than one vehicle or however you want to think about it.
Wilson Pineda: Now, can you make it.
For a while we sorry.
Wilson Pineda: i'm you have to deliver some one day.
Wilson Pineda: So even if you have any definitely capacity can be your seniors one bass and you good they one half or whatever you do the model chosen the to the rest.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm sorry I did not understand the question.
Wilson Pineda: No it's Okay, I think that will come probably on the on the on the business bar don't know.
Wilson Pineda: I think I thought through it and I think this.
Wilson Pineda: is not part of the limitation my problem or a part of part of the business and they ran all the lines.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah if there wasn't a capacity on the on the bands.
Faculty Office Hours: So, if he could have as many kegs as you wanted to on the band's then one van or one trip would be the best route.
Alejandro Chacon: Professor I have a question, do you have one example where you show the code to.
Alejandro Chacon: Two mile in the capacity that we have to implementing in this because it because I the guy but I don't I don't know the way to to link the constraint.
Alejandro Chacon: They have to apply to a split the the.
Alejandro Chacon: The point where he say he he cannot be the note and say Okay, this is a maximum capacity, they have to chase to come back to their base and can I know I have to be.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so um.
Faculty Office Hours: let's think about the.
Faculty Office Hours: The vehicle routing problem, the baggage delivery problem where they have.
Faculty Office Hours: At most.
Faculty Office Hours: A certain amount of time.
Faculty Office Hours: For each van.
Alejandro Chacon: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: and try and translate that into instead of the most amount of.
Faculty Office Hours: Time.
Faculty Office Hours: The most amount of bags that can be.
Faculty Office Hours: In the band so it's just a question of.
Faculty Office Hours: kind of redefining the implicit variable.
Faculty Office Hours: To compute a different quantity.
Alejandro Chacon: So, at the end you want to minimize all the time, but you have to put that the the cost, again, there is a number of gets the total number of cats that you.
Faculty Office Hours: can do.
Alejandro Chacon: They leave anybody knows node.
Faculty Office Hours: should be at most a certain amount yes.
Alejandro Chacon: yeah bio know how to make this.
Alejandro Chacon: Ah, because again.
Alejandro Chacon: I can send you the code is why why.
Faculty Office Hours: Are my clothes me the code that been fine but.
Faculty Office Hours: If you can calculate the number of eggs that are required uh huh.
Alejandro Chacon: I did that.
Faculty Office Hours: They made that possible by.
Alejandro Chacon: I calculate the total cats by customer.
Alejandro Chacon: And with this one, I get the I know that okay in each know, I have to deliver this kit and this one gave me, I still got time guys a low and low multiply by the Skype but I don't know how to split the.
Alejandro Chacon: cartel a maximum number of gets.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, if you can calculate the number of kegs.
Faculty Office Hours: By by vehicle or by a trip, then you should be able to use that same amount to making a constraint.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: If you can print the print the value and you can calculate it, then you should be able to to make sure that it's not more than a certain value.
Alejandro Chacon: yeah I can paint pick the them them them among of get that will be or how I have to delivering some.
Alejandro Chacon: With some costumer but.
Alejandro Chacon: I don't know how to make this because I tried to add this and they give you the total number of cat, but this is for one hour.
Alejandro Chacon: So when when I do when it got to split the tiles.
Alejandro Chacon: They don't find any solution the, this is the problem without a solution say this, the output, so I don't know, maybe it's a constraint is no corporate.
Faculty Office Hours: So so let's think about the number of stops so one of the constraints in the model concerns number of stops it because of the symmetries in the problem.
Faculty Office Hours: It helps to solve it to say that the number of stops in the first vehicle is more than the number of stops or or, at most, the number of stops in the second vehicle.
Faculty Office Hours: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: and
Faculty Office Hours: The m the implicit variable that calculates the number of stops.
Faculty Office Hours: You could easily translate if you have the data available.
Faculty Office Hours: Instead of the number of stops available number of stops made the number of.
Faculty Office Hours: bags.
Faculty Office Hours: or capacity, whatever you want to call it.
Alejandro Chacon: OK.
Faculty Office Hours: OK.
Alejandro Chacon: So I have to take the this guy dies desktops and change it by capacity does is a.
Faculty Office Hours: Will I would say, change the implicit variable.
Alejandro Chacon: uh huh.
Faculty Office Hours: So that it in, in addition to the number of stops it calculates the capacity in a row bags of kegs and then.
Faculty Office Hours: use that.
Faculty Office Hours: Implicit variable.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: To come up with a constraint.
Okay, I.
Faculty Office Hours: mean so like we had a constraint that says.
Faculty Office Hours: The total time in the baggage delivery model is at most 100 minutes.
Alejandro Chacon: Yes, yes.
Faculty Office Hours: So you should be able to come up with a similar constraint that says that, instead of the total number of transit, time is less than or equal to 100 Minutes that total capacity of each vehicle is that most.
Faculty Office Hours: kegs.
Alejandro Chacon: Exactly, but the point is the a you have different note on the different each know has.
Alejandro Chacon: A specific demand so when when.
Alejandro Chacon: Does the soul bear make the their own say okay this these five note has this X capacity dice less than that no one.
Alejandro Chacon: If I pass this one, I need to come back to the base and go make another trip I don't know how to make this constraint, this is the point.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm not clear on what you're asking.
Alejandro Chacon: Okay, the question is.
Alejandro Chacon: I can define the empower empower bar.
Alejandro Chacon: barbell they say Okay, the the the total.
Alejandro Chacon: capacity is equal to the a demand of a each note Okay, and this half the construction that will be less than 29 there is a maximum capacity die, I can low in the in the each tower.
Alejandro Chacon: So when it when they.
Alejandro Chacon: I don't know how to make to the tape to make the program to say when is achieve this.
Alejandro Chacon: go back to their base and low that make a new car because they have to go to come back to the the database and make on your own, or we need to put that.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, let me try and interpret this in a different way.
Faculty Office Hours: Each trip.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, Nicole.
Faculty Office Hours: makes.
Faculty Office Hours: Great memories and then goes back to the base okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So each each vehicle is.
Faculty Office Hours: going to have at most.
Faculty Office Hours: kegs delivered.
Faculty Office Hours: Regardless of how many times how many how many seconds, it takes to do the deliveries.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: And then you know you know, based on.
Faculty Office Hours: How efficiently route each.
Faculty Office Hours: Vehicles deliveries, I mean.
Shadi Kilani: So, Dr Hoffman if you don't mind me asking a good question you.
Shadi Kilani: Are on this point, Sir, so we don't have to make a complete delivery for each customer right, it could be that they get half of what they need, and then we send another trip trip and bring we don't have to factor in that they need to get a complete delivery every time right.
Faculty Office Hours: I believe that's one of the follow up questions.
Faculty Office Hours: One of the follow up questions is.
Shadi Kilani: Oh yes, yes you're right you're right sorry.
Faculty Office Hours: Does it make sense to.
Faculty Office Hours: Only make complete deliveries or split them up.
Faculty Office Hours: And I think you're gonna have to kind of like figure it out for yourself, I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah you can try and modify the model or you can just kind of use common sense about that or it's just.
Shadi Kilani: No, but I mean when you optimize you don't have to at least so probably you put that constraint on the number and then you could see what kind of solution, you get.
Shadi Kilani: And if you look at visually and you could see that you're going to the same node twice that means that you made a partial delivery right.
Shadi Kilani: I mean that's how I would get my mind, giving up too much i'm sorry i'm doing that.
Faculty Office Hours: It kind of depends on how you define the variables to when you say i'll see if I go back twice, I mean if the question is mean.
Faculty Office Hours: Because your constraints might say that you visit each do every note exactly once, in which case you would only go there once so I mean it kind of depends on how you set up the constraints.
Faculty Office Hours: Whether you actually would see that you would go there more than once.
Wright, Beth: And that's controlled by the flow in turn correct is there's this thing, this is no so.
Faculty Office Hours: So so So if you have.
Faculty Office Hours: The flow in and flow out, I mean kind of based on the assumption that you make.
Faculty Office Hours: One delivery for each node.
Faculty Office Hours: Then you go in and out what's right, but if you were to go out more than one time, then that would be different.
Faculty Office Hours: And that that that may or may not, you know um.
Faculty Office Hours: I guess that's part of the question i'm asking you might actually.
Faculty Office Hours: think that maybe it could be an advantage to going to the same customer more than once, but I mean kind of like so it's part of its common sense and part of it is.
Faculty Office Hours: You know, it also.
Faculty Office Hours: To some extent, has to do with the numbers but I mean it's mostly common sense.
Faculty Office Hours: me if you're going to go to the same customer more than once and you're going to have to.
Faculty Office Hours: make an additional trip back to the brewery.
Faculty Office Hours: Right and that's got to be justified in some sense if you're in a do that.
Faculty Office Hours: Based on the kind of like common sense notion that.
Faculty Office Hours: If there was no capacity.
Faculty Office Hours: On the Van or the order to be called the vehicle, I mean you would just do one trip right I.
Faculty Office Hours: mean there's no reason to do two trips.
Faculty Office Hours: except for the fact that there is a capacity on the vehicle.
Faculty Office Hours: right because it's always better not to go back to the depot and take that additional time.
Faculty Office Hours: But if you have capacity constraints, then.
Faculty Office Hours: It makes sense to make multiple trips or or my you can kind of interpret them as multiple vehicles right.
Karen Fireman: One point this or if we do extra days on the truck that's outside of this and they're not extra trips back it's just the trips that are in the middle of the mall.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm not quite.
Faculty Office Hours: 100% sure on what the question is asking.
Karen Fireman: Okay, all right i'll work on it thanks yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean, but but I mean the question about whether you need a vehicle for multiple days I mean you know, based on the authorization how long you'll need it at the bare minimum.
Faculty Office Hours: And you know how long it's going to take.
Faculty Office Hours: To do the.
Faculty Office Hours: drop offs and pickups.
Faculty Office Hours: So you can kind of ballpark how long the total amount of time would be to see if it could be accomplished within one day or you didn't a second day.
Karen Fireman: Thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: Were give someone in your group from Houston.
Faculty Office Hours: Just make.
Faculty Office Hours: up.
Faculty Office Hours: Make the deliveries, you know.
yeah.
Karen Fireman: yeah thanks.
Karen Fireman: y'all.
Karen Fireman: got it.
Karen Fireman: My friend got it you're all heart.
Jim Clark: That my.
Jim Clark: My first thought when they.
Jim Clark: said, we came up is we're going to have to assume that this is the nominal amount of time it takes whether it's big night or whether it's 12 Min whether it's eight in the morning, or whether it's five in the afternoon.
Jim Clark: Just it's gonna it's going to vary what's the weather is it raining you know it, you know so that that has to be mean time.
Jim Clark: Some day to go faster, some day to go slower.
Faculty Office Hours: So do you mean the transit times are.
Faculty Office Hours: The items to deliver the kegs mean like to take the kegs.
Faculty Office Hours: From the truck and back to.
Faculty Office Hours: The empties back to the.
Jim Clark: know, I think that time is is not going to change with with external conditions, but I do, I do think the transit time between the locations that's going to have to be nominal because I think we have enough.
Jim Clark: Information to challenge that to say, it should be more or less, but you might want to make a case of the time and motion studies of getting things on or off the truck at the customer that that's something that I had to think about.
Faculty Office Hours: sure now.
Faculty Office Hours: let's think about that, so the the times in seconds that are in the data set are from some you know arbitrary point you know, like could be 2pm could be could be whatever time they decided to get the data from.
Faculty Office Hours: So I guess you need to kind of think about.
Faculty Office Hours: It and it kind of informs.
Faculty Office Hours: How, you know about what the traffic patterns are in Houston and so forth mean so let's say.
Faculty Office Hours: let's say you have for routing patterns for vehicles so that's it they're not separate vehicles but they're just like trips right.
Faculty Office Hours: doesn't matter what order they do you do live in.
Faculty Office Hours: Or is that.
Faculty Office Hours: Is that like totally dependent on Houston traffic.
Karen Fireman: I.
Karen Fireman: got another question when you're done with that.
Wilson Pineda: Traffic to a matter because that way you're giving us the time.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm giving you the time but.
Karen Fireman: I think we'll send you can.
Karen Fireman: infer it that it may be different at different times a day and that's part of the answer to your question that's probably.
Wilson Pineda: I mean, why would you make that assumption that was the case, we have to treat table for different part of the day, so we just have one table made the assumption that is what it is.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, maybe you would have like.
Faculty Office Hours: hundred tables right.
Wilson Pineda: yeah I understand, but on this particular case is just one, so we use that one.
Karen Fireman: yeah but he's saying, if you expand your mind and there were some more complex thing um can I can I go into one other question sort of on a specific on the code here for a second.
Faculty Office Hours: Sure sure.
Karen Fireman: Okay inside your proc SG plot, which is kind of far down in the code, this was the baggage code that we're converting.
Faculty Office Hours: You know.
Karen Fireman: We put in a label and before, when I say we you did all the work you had label before you had a label of the location on that was all well and good, when we have the baggage data and it had location.
Karen Fireman: It seems like when I put in code in there, it doesn't seem to recognize that, even though I read in stuff using code and i'm a little confused why it's thinking that's not a variable.
Faculty Office Hours: So you are.
Karen Fireman: I had to do the brackets you.
Karen Fireman: know the square brackets I had code in the square brackets but later when I when I said data label equals just the word code if it was like hey I don't know that I don't know that variable.
Faculty Office Hours: So I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm trying to answer that question so.
Faculty Office Hours: So the graphing.
Faculty Office Hours: code.
Faculty Office Hours: Is it different.
Faculty Office Hours: SAS procedure and it's asking you kind of what to label the nodes right.
Faculty Office Hours: Right and your question is, you have chosen a different.
Faculty Office Hours: Different variable to to to to label and.
Karen Fireman: So wait a minute I think I see Okay, I think I see wait a minute okay you kind of you kind of gave me a hint there alright i'm going to hold for you other people ask your questions, I can have a look, thank you, I think you just kind of answer me thank you sure.
Faculty Office Hours: that's fine I mean so so's House has a lot of.
Faculty Office Hours: There, there are a lot of capabilities that SAS has to produce output, but it's kind of a question of you know how how how.
Faculty Office Hours: How deep or how dark you want to go into it to kind of like get the graphs you want, or do you want to just like go in there and kind of like get something.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah this this works and i'm that's fine so i'm hoping that you just kind of like modify what i've done, I mean you could you could do a whole lot more, but I don't really think that.
Faculty Office Hours: you're gonna achieve a lot of benefit from it, I mean.
Karen Fireman: yeah.
I caught maybe.
Faculty Office Hours: clay you're lurking, what do you, what do you know.
Coleman, Clay: Oh, I just wanted to listen mason mainly I asked my one question but I didn't want to just kind of take off.
So.
Coleman, Clay: It was, it was the one about the gap, and I mean that that made sense, I just want to make sure I wasn't you know barking up the wrong tree or anything.
Jim Clark: Okay, I would say that I follow the same category of trying to be more of a list or a questionnaire, but this people are asking great questions and learning just by listening and so.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah me too.
Karen Fireman: Thank you so much, this was a huge help I, I have to say I came in here very, very stressed, and I feel a lot better now i'm sorry I was so stressed, but thank you, thank you and thank you to a few of you others in the class.
Faculty Office Hours: You know Aaron rodgers says right.
well.
Karen Fireman: Sometimes it's hard when we get the big project hanging over our heads.
Karen Fireman: Thank you i'm heading out, thank you very much.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay yeah and.
Faculty Office Hours: Please send me the data sets.
That.
Faculty Office Hours: i've had one group already send me the data sets and they were they were all good.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Faculty Office Hours: So yeah I mean it's just going to giving you feedback about whether you have your model setup right whether your constraints are okay and and so forth.
Faculty Office Hours: You know what whether you're getting routes, whether your routes are you know.
Faculty Office Hours: Under the capacity, etc, etc.
Alejandro Chacon: Thank you, Professor I will send you the code thank.
Wilson Pineda: You good Thank you.
Karen Fireman: yeah are you expecting the time to be in many thousands is that kind of like 10s of thousands, or something like that.
Faculty Office Hours: In seconds yeah.
Karen Fireman: yeah okay just double check Thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: Even kind of ballpark that I mean.
Karen Fireman: I thought, so I thought i'd.
Faculty Office Hours: Just like.
Faculty Office Hours: You know yeah you could come up with a solution totally.
Faculty Office Hours: Apart from using prakash model, just like you know it's okay i'm going to do it this way i'm going to go here under here on here and just calculate the number of seconds, so I mean it's not like.
Faculty Office Hours: You know, you could come up with a solution.
Faculty Office Hours: A reasonable solution mean I mean just just pretend you're like the guy driving the truck and say you know here, you know deliver these tags and he comes up with some solution that's like okay i'll do it based on you know right to left or you know, whatever and and and come up with.
Faculty Office Hours: Something and that gives you a basis for comparison, so I mean if you're wondering whether you're whether you're a solution is reasonable or not in terms of the number of seconds just think of like doing it.
Faculty Office Hours: Some other way somebody we hiding how to you know how to how to route them and just go by that.
Karen Fireman: Can I ask you another question.
Karen Fireman: If i'm.
Karen Fireman: If our.
Karen Fireman: If our arrows disappeared, but our model was working is there, like a typical reason that would happen.
Karen Fireman: I mean if everything was working number of kegs and things like that, but all of a sudden, we don't have arrows on our graph.
Karen Fireman: or like a typical reason that happens.
Faculty Office Hours: know what what kind of you're not getting any arrows I mean you can.
Faculty Office Hours: Go to the you can go into the annotation.
Karen Fireman: yeah yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: and see what it's telling you.
Karen Fireman: When it which annotation which annotation.
Faculty Office Hours: So so there's a there's a there's a.
Karen Fireman: Work dot Second, I know that.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, yes, you can actually look at that and see what you.
Faculty Office Hours: Which yeah just just send me the files and i'll be happy to look at it.
Karen Fireman: Okay, thank you because some reason I lost them I had them and I lost him okay Thank you so much, this has been a really huge help Thank you, Sir good night.
Jim Clark: Thank you good night we'll see what we see you Thursday.
Faculty Office Hours: I know i'm not i'm not there i'm no food.
Jim Clark: it's taco night.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm crushed yeah I know but.
Jim Clark: it's it's it's that's it that's fine i'll.
Faculty Office Hours: Be there are actually going to be.
Faculty Office Hours: Driving across the country with my dog.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah I will actually be out of touch.
Faculty Office Hours: I think Saturday Sunday Monday this week.
Faculty Office Hours: and send me stuff i'll see it and i'll respond to it in the evening, but i'm gonna be i'm driving and my dog is like terrible drivers horrible like in he takes the wheel and it's like you know it's the best situation so.
Faculty Office Hours: So i'm going to drive most of the way myself yeah yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so i'm driving to California.
Coleman, Clay: will be careful, Sir, now have a good one.
Faculty Office Hours: we'll do.
Jim Clark: Have a safe trip.
Jim Clark: Thank you.
Alejandro Chacon: Thank you, thank you.
Alejandro Chacon: Professor by.
Fireman, Karen: you very much.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah sure and send me email.
Faculty Office Hours: check them.